
Minimum RTO for a single AZ outage
In case there is an outage in one AZ in the primary region(us-east-1) the DB will continue to work without any problem since the other AZ will take over.
This is because there is a standby replica ready to take over in case there is a failure where the primary DB is running.
Based on AWS documentation this depends on ongoing transactions and recovery it is safe to assume that typically can be around 1-2 minutes.
But this can be take longer as well.


Minimum RTO for a single region outage
In case there is a whole region outage there should be a promotion of the read replica to master. Now this is tricky and lets assume
this is super important DB which is storing some very important data in it. This means we will need to have a support team 24/7. That means
when the issue is detected the person who will monitor will login to the AWS CLI and promote the db. This can take around 10-20 minutes time.
This also means that we will need to update the applications that are connecting to the DB to change their connection strings.
Adding this into consideration it can take around 20-30 minutes for RTO.


Minimum RPO for a single AZ outage
Because we have multi AZ DB in case of single AZ outage, the other AZ will take over thus leading to no data loss. 0 mins

Minimum RPO for a single region outage
Because we have a read replica in another region and it is only read replica there will be data loss. This means that we will need
to promote read replica to master and change all connection strings that use the DB to point
For business and users this means that the users will be able to use the DB and get data from it but writes will not be possible until
the read replica becomes master and the connection strings are updated so new transactions can come in. In case everything is automated
in CF scripts assumption is that around 15-30 minutes will take in order to promote to master the replica and the apps/services that
are using the DB change the connection strings.
